# excel-challenge
For this Excel challenge, I dealt with data from a crowdfunding campaign that had 1,000 sample projects, and my goal was to see if I could find any hidden trends within the data. At the end of this challenge, I would be answering these 3 questions:

1. What are 3 possible conclusions I could draw from these crowdfunding campaigns?
2. What are some limitations of this dataset?
3. What are some additional visualization that we could create that would provide further insight into this dataset?

 
Within my Excel file, I include the original dataset that I initially started with. I simply made a copy to ensure that if I made a mistake, it would not harm the original. I created 3 pivot tables to help visualize the data, a goal analysis to see the comparison between each of the campaign types, and a statistical summary to see the overview of the entire dataset. Now I will provide my responses to each of the questions listed above:

  1. Given the provided data, one conclusion could be that the supporters of the crowdfunding campaigns were most interested in film & video, music, and theater. Additionally, even though there was a good number of successful campaigns, there were almost the same number of failed campaigns for each category. It appears that there was almost a fifty-fifty chance a campaign would be successful or not. Regardless, there were more successful campaigns than failed and canceled campaigns combined. The last possible conclusion could be that campaign success may be connected to the time of the year because there seemed to be an increase of successful campaigns until July when we begin to see a heavy decline to a steady number of successful campaigns.

  2. Some limitation that I noticed within these datasets is that it is very generalized information because we do not go into which genres of film or what kind of music is catching the attention of supporters. Additionally, we are considering which country this data is being taken from, but we do not take the country into account when dealing with the dataset. Countries vary in culture drastically, and what individuals may like in one country does not guarantee that someone from another country would. Limiting the data to a single country could have given us a better understanding as to why a campaign would have been successful or not since it could have appealed in different ways. Also, I do not understand what the ‘spotlight’ column is really for because it is very vague. It may have been more helpful if the data taken was a bit more specific in what outlet it used for the ‘spotlight’ whether it be an advertisement on social media, a billboard, a tv commercial, etc.

  3. A table we could have considered is if a campaign failed simply because there was not enough pledged. We could then see if campaign success is directly related to funding rather than if people were interested in the topic or not. Furthermore, we could compare campaigns to which country it was from to see if success was linked to a country rather than just the topic of the campaign. There may be countries where individuals may not have as much financial funds to provide support, so it could be a possible result from this dataset. All of this could show us more possibilities as to why these campaigns were able to succeed, fail, or be canceled. Since the amount of failed and canceled campaigns combined almost match the number of successful campaigns, I believe it would be a good option for us to explore why the number is so close together.


As for my statistical analysis, I believe that the median better describes the data because it demonstrates how low the number of backers was for nearly half of the campaigns. The median value of backers for successful campaigns was 201, while the median value of backers for failed campaigns was 115. This could explain why there was such a large amount of failed campaigns; however, there were still successful campaigns even though the number of backers was less than 201. It is difficult to say whether the correlation of the number of backers is directly related to success or failure, but we can at least see an overview of how the data is behaving. As for the variability, there is more variance with the successful campaigns than the failed campaigns, and this makes sense because a campaign could simply succeed because of chance rather than through insight. As I was working with this dataset, I noticed that every category had a 50/50 chance of succeeding especially in the categories that had most campaigns. Considering the standard deviation of 1266.3 and 960 for successful and failed campaigns respectively, we can see that the data set is very spread out, and it is difficult for us to make insightful conclusions on this data set. 
